skill/implement/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: implement
description: Implement a Worklog work item by writing code, tests and documentation to meet acceptance criteria, following a deterministic workflow. Trigger on user queries such as: 'Implement <work-item-id>', 'Complete <work-item-id>', 'Work on <work-item-id>'.
---

## Purpose

Provide a deterministic, step-by-step implementation workflow for completing a
Worklog work item.

Use this skill when asked to implement a specific wl work-item id
(formatted `<prefix>-<hash>`). The skill assumes the work-item id will be
supplied as an input and that the agent has access to `wl`, `git`, and the
repository.

## Instructions

- Input: a valid work-item id (e.g. `WL-123`). If missing or invalid, prompt
  for the id. Treat the work-item id as the primary required input (equivalent
  to `$1` in the canonical command implementation).

Follow the numbered steps exactly. Use the listed live commands where
applicable and record outputs in the work-item comments as you proceed.

0. Safety gate: handle dirty working tree

- Inspect the working tree with `git status --porcelain=v1 -b`.
- If uncommitted changes are limited to `.worklog/`, carry them into the new
  branch and commit there.
- If other uncommitted changes exist, present explicit choices: carry into the
  work-item branch, commit first, stash (and optionally pop later), revert/
  discard (explicit confirmation), or abort.

1. Understand the work item

- Claim the work item: run
  `wl update <id> --status in_progress --stage in_progress --assignee "<AGENT>" --json`
  (omit `--assignee` if not applicable).
- Fetch the work item JSON: `wl show <id> --json`.
- Restate acceptance criteria and constraints extracted from the work item
  JSON in the worklog comment and in your local plan.
- Surface blockers, dependencies and missing requirements; inspect linked PRDs
  and docs.
- Confirm expected tests or validation steps.

  1.1) Definition gate (must pass before implementation)

- Verify clear scope, concrete testable acceptance criteria, constraints, and
  unknowns captured as explicit questions.
- If the work item is not well-defined, run the intake interview (see
  `.opencode/command/intake.md`) and update the work item description or
  acceptance criteria. If too large, run milestones or plan interviews to
  break it into smaller work items.

2. Create a working branch

- Inspect the current branch: `git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD`.
- If the current branch is already for an ancestor work item, continue on it.
- Otherwise create a new branch named `feature/<id>-<short>` or
  `bug/<id>-<short>` (include the work item id). Never commit directly to
  `main`.

3. Implement

- If blockers or dependencies exist, select and claim the next appropriate
  work-item and recursively implement it according to this skill.
- Write tests and code to meet acceptance criteria. Keep changes minimal and
  focused. Use TDD where appropriate.
- Create linked work items for additional discovered work: `wl create
"<title>" --deps discovered-from:<id> --json`.
- When satisfied, run the full test suite and fix failing tests before
  continuing. Update documentation and summarise changes in the work item
  comments.
- Pause and request operator confirmation before proceeding to automated PR
  creation if interactive approval is required by your environment.

4. Automated self-review

- Run `audit <id>` to confirm acceptance criteria (if audit tooling exists).
- Perform sequential self-review passes: completeness, dependencies & safety,
  scope & regression, tests & acceptance, polish & handoff.
- For each pass produce a short note and limit edits to small, goal-aligned
  changes. If intent changes are discovered, create an Open Question and stop
  automated edits.
- Re-run the full test suite and fix failing tests.

5. Commit, Push and create PR

- Update work item status to completed/in-review: `wl update <id> --status
completed --stage in_review --json`.
- Push the branch to origin and create a Pull Request against the repository's
  default branch.
- Use the PR title `WIP: <work item title> (<work item id>)` and include a
  concise body summarising goal, work done, and reviewer instructions.
- Link the PR to the work item via a comment and `wl` as appropriate.

6. Human PR review

- Notify reviewers that the PR is ready.
- Address review comments and requested changes.
- After merge, proceed to cleanup.

7. Cleanup (post-merge)

- After the PR is merged, close the work item and its dependents: `wl update
<work-item-id> --status completed --stage completed --json`.
- Run the cleanup skill to prune branches and finalize local state.

## Inputs

- work-item id: required. Validate id format `<prefix>-<hash>` and prompt if
  missing.
- Optional freeform guidance in the arguments string may be used to shape the
  implementation approach.

## Outputs

- Tests and implementation code meeting acceptance criteria (committed to a
  branch and pushed to origin).
- Pull Request URL and work item comments referencing the PR and summarising
  work.

## References to Bundled Resources

- Intake/interview helpers: `.opencode/command/intake.md`,
  `.opencode/command/plan.md`.

Security note: Do not push or create PRs automatically unless the invoking
agent has explicit permission to push to the repository and open pull
requests. Require explicit confirmation before performing remote actions
(push/pr creation) when operating without an operator-approved credential.
When in doubt, produce the exact `git`/`gh`/`wl` commands for a human to run.

Privacy note: Avoid including secrets, tokens, or personally-identifiable data
in work item comments or PR bodies. If such data must be referenced, reference
it by work-item id or document path instead of pasting values. Mask or redact
any sensitive values before writing them to logs or comments.

## Examples

- Example 1 — Full implementation (canonical)
  - Input: work-item id `WL-456`.
  - Steps:
    1. Claim: `wl update WL-456 --status in_progress --stage in_progress --assignee "implement-agent" --json`
    2. `wl show WL-456 --json` and restate acceptance criteria.
    3. Create branch: `git checkout -b feature/WL-456-add-orc-parser`.
    4. Implement tests and code, run test suite.
    5. Self-review and audit: `audit WL-456`.
    6. `wl update WL-456 --status completed --stage in_review --json`.
    7. Push and create PR: `gh pr create --title "WIP: Add ORC parser (WL-456)" --body "$BODY"`.
    8. Add PR link to WL-456 comments and wait for human review.
    9. After merge, `wl update WL-456 --status completed --stage completed --json` and run cleanup.

Commit message:

chore: update README and regenerate

skill/implement/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: implement
description: Implement a Worklog work item by writing code, tests and documentation to meet acceptance criteria, following a deterministic workflow. Trigger on user queries such as: 'Implement <work-item-id>', 'Complete <work-item-id>', 'Work on <work-item-id>'.
---

## Purpose

Provide a deterministic, step-by-step implementation workflow for completing a
Worklog work item.

Use this skill when asked to implement a specific wl work-item id
(formatted `<prefix>-<hash>`). The skill assumes the work-item id will be
supplied as an input and that the agent has access to `wl`, `git`, and the
repository.

## Instructions

- Input: a valid work-item id (e.g. `WL-123`). If missing or invalid, prompt
  for the id. Treat the work-item id as the primary required input (equivalent
  to `$1` in the canonical command implementation).

Follow the numbered steps exactly. Use the listed live commands where
applicable and record outputs in the work-item comments as you proceed.

0. Safety gate: handle dirty working tree

- Inspect the working tree with `git status --porcelain=v1 -b`.
- If uncommitted changes are limited to `.worklog/`, carry them into the new
  branch and commit there.
- If other uncommitted changes exist, present explicit choices: carry into the
  work-item branch, commit first, stash (and optionally pop later), revert/
  discard (explicit confirmation), or abort.

1. Understand the work item

- Claim the work item: run
  `wl update <id> --status in_progress --stage in_progress --assignee "<AGENT>" --json`
  (omit `--assignee` if not applicable).
- Fetch the work item JSON: `wl show <id> --json`.
- Restate acceptance criteria and constraints extracted from the work item
  JSON in the worklog comment and in your local plan.
- Surface blockers, dependencies and missing requirements; inspect linked PRDs
  and docs.
- Confirm expected tests or validation steps.

  1.1) Definition gate (must pass before implementation)

- Verify clear scope, concrete testable acceptance criteria, constraints, and
  unknowns captured as explicit questions.
- If the work item is not well-defined, run the intake interview (see
  `.opencode/command/intake.md`) and update the work item description or
  acceptance criteria. If too large, run milestones or plan interviews to
  break it into smaller work items.

2. Create a working branch

- Inspect the current branch: `git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD`.
- If the current branch is already for an ancestor work item, continue on it.
- Otherwise create a new branch named `feature/<id>-<short>` or
  `bug/<id>-<short>` (include the work item id). Never commit directly to
  `main`.

3. Implement

- If blockers or dependencies exist, select and claim the next appropriate
  work-item and recursively implement it according to this skill.
- Write tests and code to meet acceptance criteria. Keep changes minimal and
  focused. Use TDD where appropriate.
- Create linked work items for additional discovered work: `wl create
"<title>" --deps discovered-from:<id> --json`.
- When satisfied, run the full test suite and fix failing tests before
  continuing. Update documentation and summarise changes in the work item
  comments.
- Pause and request operator confirmation before proceeding to automated PR
  creation if interactive approval is required by your environment.

4. Automated self-review

- Run `audit <id>` to confirm acceptance criteria (if audit tooling exists).
- Perform sequential self-review passes: completeness, dependencies & safety,
  scope & regression, tests & acceptance, polish & handoff.
- For each pass produce a short note and limit edits to small, goal-aligned
  changes. If intent changes are discovered, create an Open Question and stop
  automated edits.
- Re-run the full test suite and fix failing tests.

5. Commit, Push and create PR

- Update work item status to completed/in-review: `wl update <id> --status
completed --stage in_review --json`.
- Push the branch to origin and create a Pull Request against the repository's
  default branch.
- Use the PR title `WIP: <work item title> (<work item id>)` and include a
  concise body summarising goal, work done, and reviewer instructions.
- Link the PR to the work item via a comment and `wl` as appropriate.

6. Human PR review

- Notify reviewers that the PR is ready.
- Address review comments and requested changes.
- After merge, proceed to cleanup.

7. Cleanup (post-merge)

- After the PR is merged, close the work item and its dependents: `wl update
<work-item-id> --status completed --stage completed --json`.
- Run the cleanup skill to prune branches and finalize local state.

## Inputs

- work-item id: required. Validate id format `<prefix>-<hash>` and prompt if
  missing.
- Optional freeform guidance in the arguments string may be used to shape the
  implementation approach.

## Outputs

- Tests and implementation code meeting acceptance criteria (committed to a
  branch and pushed to origin).
- Pull Request URL and work item comments referencing the PR and summarising
  work.

## References to Bundled Resources

- Intake/interview helpers: `.opencode/command/intake.md`,
  `.opencode/command/plan.md`.

Security note: Do not push or create PRs automatically unless the invoking
agent has explicit permission to push to the repository and open pull
requests. Require explicit confirmation before performing remote actions
(push/pr creation) when operating without an operator-approved credential.
When in doubt, produce the exact `git`/`gh`/`wl` commands for a human to run.

Privacy note: Avoid including secrets, tokens, or personally-identifiable data
in work item comments or PR bodies. If such data must be referenced, reference
it by work-item id or document path instead of pasting values. Mask or redact
any sensitive values before writing them to logs or comments.

## Best Practices

- Follow the steps in order and do not skip steps.
- Keep implementation focused on meeting acceptance criteria with minimal changes.
- Use work item comments to document your process, decisions, and next steps.
- Handle errors gracefully and provide actionable messages for remediation.
- If the work item is not well-defined, do not proceed with implementation. Instead, run the intake interview to clarify and update the work item before implementing.
- If the work item has blockers or dependencies, implement those first before proceeding with the main work item.
- Never commit directly to `main`. Always create a feature or bug branch for implementation.
- When creating branches, include the work item id in the branch name for traceability (e.g., `feature/WL-123-add-auth`).
- When writing the PR body, include a concise summary of the goal, work done, and clear instructions for reviewers on what to focus on in the review. Also include instructions on how to experience the any new/changed user experiences.
- After implementation, use the cleanup skill to tidy up branches and local state, but only after the PR is merged to avoid disrupting the review process.

## Handling Assets

- If the implementation requires the creation of assets such as graphics or audio files, create these assets in an appropriate subfolder of the `assets` directory (e.g., `assets/images/`, `assets/audio/`) and use a name that has the prefix "placeholder\_" followed by a descriptive name (e.g., `placeholder_player_explosion_spritesheet.png` or `placeholder_player_jump.wav`).
  - always reference new assets in the work item comments and PR description. Ensure that any generated assets are included in the commit and pushed to the repository.
  - when creating assets, ensure they are optimized for size and performance, and follow any project guidelines for asset creation and management.
  - you can discover assets on the web as part of your implementation, but ensure that you have the right to use and distribute any assets you include in the project. Always provide proper attribution if required by the asset's license.
  - any
- If the implementation requires changes to documentation, update the relevant markdown files in the `docs` directory and reference these changes in the work item comments and PR description.
  - ensure that documentation changes are clear, concise, and accurately reflect the implementation changes. Include examples or screenshots if they help clarify the documentation.

## Examples

- Example 1 — Full implementation (canonical)
  - Input: work-item id `WL-456`.
  - Steps:
    1. Claim: `wl update WL-456 --status in_progress --stage in_progress --assignee "implement-agent" --json`
    2. `wl show WL-456 --json` and restate acceptance criteria.
    3. Create branch: `git checkout -b feature/WL-456-add-orc-parser`.
    4. Implement tests and code, run test suite.
    5. Self-review and audit: `audit WL-456`.
    6. `wl update WL-456 --status completed --stage in_review --json`.
    7. Push and create PR: `gh pr create --title "WIP: Add ORC parser (WL-456)" --body "$BODY"`.
    8. Add PR link to WL-456 comments and wait for human review.
    9. After merge, `wl update WL-456 --status completed --stage completed --json` and run cleanup.
