ampa/README.md, before:

AMPA Core Heartbeat Sender

Run locally:

AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/XXX" python -m ampa.daemon

Scheduler

The scheduler runs periodic commands with a normalized-lateness algorithm and stores state on disk.

Run locally:

  python -m ampa.scheduler

Example scheduler store:

  python -m ampa.scheduler

Key config knobs (env):

- AMPA_SCHEDULER_STORE: path to the JSON scheduler store
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_POLL_INTERVAL_SECONDS: poll interval in seconds
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_GLOBAL_MIN_INTERVAL_SECONDS: minimum gap between command starts
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_PRIORITY_WEIGHT: priority multiplier weight
- AMPA_LLM_HEALTHCHECK_URL: LLM availability probe URL
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_MAX_RUN_HISTORY: number of run history entries to keep
 - AMPA_VERIFY_PR_WITH_GH: when set to 1/true, enable verification of GitHub PR merge status
   via the `gh` CLI before auto-completing work items. Defaults to enabled when not set;
   per-command metadata `verify_pr_with_gh` can override this behavior.

See `ampa/scheduler_schema.md` for the command field schema, store layout, and tuning guidance.

Configuration via .env

Place a `.env` file in the `ampa/` directory (it is ignored by git by default). The daemon will load `ampa/.env` if present and values there override environment variables.

Example `ampa/.env` contents:

AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/...."
AMPA_HEARTBEAT_MINUTES=1
AMPA_VERIFY_PR_WITH_GH=1

Environment variables are used if `.env` is not present. The daemon prefers values from the `.env` file when available.

Installing dependencies (if running locally)

Add the runtime dependencies and install them in your environment:

```sh
 pip install -r ampa/requirements.txt
```

Run as a daemon

   # Run daemon in the foreground and start scheduler loop
   AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/XXX" python -m ampa.daemon --start-scheduler

   # Alternatively, run a single heartbeat once
   AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/XXX" python -m ampa.daemon --once

Scheduler admin CLI

  Use the scheduler CLI for admin tasks (listing, adding, updating commands):

    python -m ampa.scheduler list

Commit message:

docs: clarify daemon scheduler flags and examples

ampa/README.md, after:

AMPA Core Heartbeat Sender

Run locally:

AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/XXX" python -m ampa.daemon

Scheduler

The scheduler runs periodic commands with a normalized-lateness algorithm and stores state on disk.

Run locally:

  python -m ampa.scheduler

Example scheduler store:

  python -m ampa.scheduler

Key config knobs (env):

- AMPA_SCHEDULER_STORE: path to the JSON scheduler store
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_POLL_INTERVAL_SECONDS: poll interval in seconds
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_GLOBAL_MIN_INTERVAL_SECONDS: minimum gap between command starts
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_PRIORITY_WEIGHT: priority multiplier weight
- AMPA_LLM_HEALTHCHECK_URL: LLM availability probe URL
- AMPA_SCHEDULER_MAX_RUN_HISTORY: number of run history entries to keep
 - AMPA_VERIFY_PR_WITH_GH: when set to 1/true, enable verification of GitHub PR merge status
   via the `gh` CLI before auto-completing work items. Defaults to enabled when not set;
   per-command metadata `verify_pr_with_gh` can override this behavior.

See `ampa/scheduler_schema.md` for the command field schema, store layout, and tuning guidance.

Configuration via .env

Place a `.env` file in the `ampa/` directory (it is ignored by git by default). The daemon will load `ampa/.env` if present and values there override environment variables.

Example `ampa/.env` contents:

AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/...."
AMPA_HEARTBEAT_MINUTES=1
AMPA_VERIFY_PR_WITH_GH=1

Environment variables are used if `.env` is not present. The daemon prefers values from the `.env` file when available.

Installing dependencies (if running locally)

Add the runtime dependencies and install them in your environment:

```sh
 pip install -r ampa/requirements.txt
```

Run as a daemon

The daemon defaults to sending a single heartbeat and exiting. To run the
scheduler loop under the daemon runtime you must explicitly enable it either
with the `--start-scheduler` flag or the `AMPA_RUN_SCHEDULER` environment
variable.

Examples:

  # Run daemon in the foreground and start the scheduler loop (recommended for testing)
  AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/XXX" python -m ampa.daemon --start-scheduler

  # Enable scheduler via environment variable instead of the CLI flag
  AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/XXX" AMPA_RUN_SCHEDULER=1 python -m ampa.daemon

  # Send a single heartbeat and exit
  AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/XXX" python -m ampa.daemon --once

Notes:

- The scheduler uses the current working directory as the `command_cwd` for
  commands it runs, so start the daemon from the directory you want commands
  to execute in.
- Ensure `AMPA_DISCORD_WEBHOOK` is set (or `ampa/.env` is present) before
  starting the daemon; missing webhook will cause the daemon to exit.
- Install runtime dependencies when running locally:

  pip install -r ampa/requirements.txt

Scheduler admin CLI

  Use the scheduler CLI for admin tasks (listing, adding, updating commands):

    python -m ampa.scheduler list
